Dating can be a tricky business for anyone. Whether you’re shy and inexperienced or seasoned and outgoing, 
there are plenty of ways a pickup line or a first date can fall flat. Don’t let the possibility of failure 
frighten you away, though. If you think carefully about what you’re looking for, choose a way to meet people 
that feels comfortable, and bring your best self to the first date and beyond, dating can be a lot less scary 
and a lot more fun. Even if you don’t end up meeting the love of your life, you’ll be glad you gave it a shot.


Decide if you’re looking for a serious relationship or a casual fling. What are you looking for in a potential 
partner? Do you want a lifetime commitment, or do you want to live completely in the moment? Overall, it's 
important to know where you stand so that you can figure out if your date is on the same page. That way, 
both parties will be less likely to be hurt by miscommunication or misunderstanding.[1]
If you just ended a serious relationship – or don’t have enough time to invest in a full-on romantic 
commitment – casual dating may be the best choice for you.[2] In these cases, you should be less concerned 
about whether a potential partner meets all your expectations, and more focused on whether you have chemistry 
and fun.
If you’re looking for a serious relationship, you’ll want to spend more time confirming that you have values 
in common, such as your spirituality and long-term goals.

Try apps or online dating if you’re struggling to find romance within your social circle. Many people rely on 
websites like Match or apps like OkCupid, Tinder, Hinge, or Bumble to meet romantic prospects. If you're having 
a hard time finding potential dates among people you know or encounter often, apps like these can connect you
 to people you might not otherwise meet.

Pick the platform that suits you best if you opt for digital dating. If you choose to create a profile on a 
website or an app, it’s important to pick one with a user base that generally aligns with your desires and 
intentions. It’s possible to meet a great partner on any platform, but many of them serve a certain demographic
 with specific expectations and desires.[3]
Many people on Tinder are looking for a deeper commitment than casual sex, but significant portions of their user 
base – specifically, younger males – use it primarily for excitement, validation, and hookup opportunities.[4] If 
you’re looking for a serious relationship, it may not be the best option for you.
If you’re gay, bisexual, trans, or queer, try Grindr. Her is also a good option for lesbian, bisexual, and queer 
people.

Older, more established websites like Match are a better fit for people who are looking for a committed 
relationship. Profiles are more extensive and informative than on other websites and apps.

